... 23 portable computing one. The great thing about a computer notebook is that no matter how much you stuff into it, it doesn't get bigger or heavier bill gates business. At the speed of thought. In this chapter, you will learn how to describe the many types of portable computing devices available. Explain ways to expand portable computers, manage and maintain portable computers, upgrade and repair, portable computers troubleshoot, portable computers.
T here are times when the walls close in, when you need a change of scenery to get that elusive spark that inspires greatness. Or sometimes you just need to get away from your co workers for a few hours because they're driving you nuts for many occupations. That's difficult to do. You need access to your documents and spreadsheets. You can't function without email or the internet.
In short, you need a computer to get your job done. Portable computing devices combine mobility with accessibility to bring you're the best of both worlds. Portables enable you to take some or even all of your computing capabilities with you. When you go featuring all the bells and whistles of a desktop system, many portables offer a seamless transition from desk to cafe table.
This chapter looks at the classic portable computer. Essentially a desktop transformed into a mobile format. Classic portables usually run the same operating systems as their desktop counterparts. Windows, Mac Os or Linux, but there are some operating systems like Chrome OSS based on Linux that are unique to portable computers. 864 C H A P T er historical slash conceptual portable computing devices.
All portable devices share certain features for output. They use LCD screens. Although these vary from 20 inch behemoths to diminutive 10 inch displays. Portable computing devices employ sound of varying quality from bland mono playback to fairly nice fur around reproductions. All of them run on DC electricity stored in batteries when not plugged into an AC outlet.
When asked about portable computing devices. Most folks describe the traditional clamshell notebook computer such as the one in figure 23.1 with built in LCD monitor, keyboard and input device, a touch pad. In this case, the notebook is also called a portable or a laptop. All the terms are synonymous. A typical laptop functions as a fully standalone computer.
But there are always trade offs that come with portability. Common trade offs are price weight size battery life computing power input devices ports, drives support for hardware upgrades, storage capacity, durability and the quality of any warranty slash support programs. Finding the right portable is easier if you can figure out what it will be used for and narrow your search to only devices with essential features and exclude those with unacceptable trade-offs,
taxonomy. The companies making mobile and portable devices experiment a lot. So the terms we use to describe these devices are always in flux, new device categories and their related marketing terms may flood the market and blur the lines between existing categories one year only to fall out of use within a few years. The A plus objectives don't focus on these terms and categories, but it's still a good idea to keep up with them.
Knowing how to categorize portable and mobile devices makes it easier to identify devices that are a good fit for specific uses. It also helps you apply the best troubleshooting procedures for a given device. These categories can be slippery. So don't think of them as mutually exclusive. Sometimes more than one of these terms apply to a single device.
A number of terms address the size or purpose of traditional clamshell laptops slash notebooks. But it helps to understand that today's laptops driven by the success of the Macbook air are a lot thinner, lighter and more powerful than they were when many of these terms were coined. See figure 23.2, a desktop replacement traditionally features a massive screen, a roomy keyboard, a dedicated graphics card, the latest high end mobile processors, plenty of hard drive space
tons of ports and maybe an optical drive. See the portable on the left in figure 23.3 think power Chapter 23 portable computing, other portable devices such as smartphones and tablets run mobile operating systems such as Apple, IOS on the ipad and iphone designed to take advantage of small form factors and touchscreens in practice and on the Tiaa Plus exams.
Such mobile devices differ a lot from classic portable computers. While these devices get their own chapters later in the book, it is worth being aware that mobility has encouraged a lot of innovation in recent years. And some of the resulting products do a really good job of blurring the line between these categories. Figure 23.1, an older notebook computer, figure 23.2 older full size laptop left versus the thin slice aesthetic of the Macbook air, right?
865 figure 23.3 desktop replacement left next to a standard portable computer. Right? First portability. Second, it does everything most people want to do with a desktop and doesn't compromise on performance just to make the laptop a few pounds lighter or the battery last an extra hour gaming laptops which tend to have flashy designs.
Typically come loaded with the latest top end processors, graphics cards, ram sds and large high quality displays. They also tend to come with thoughtful touches like high quality keyboards that are extensively customizable. A chromebook is a portable computer running Google's Linux based Chrome Os chromebooks offer an experience focused on web applications by making use of virtually unlimited data storage in the cloud and software as a service sauce applications
available over the web because they offload so much work. Chromebooks have a reputation for being cheap and light. But premium chromebooks are increasingly common. It's even more important to know how to categorize devices that play with the traditional clamshell format because they often blur the line between portable and mobile devices.
Two in one are touchscreen computers. Somewhere along the spectrum from laptop and tablet to tablet and laptop. We'll take a closer look at pure mobile tablets such as the apple, ipad or various Android tablets. In chapter 24 understanding, mobile devices, convertibles are laptops that can convert into something you can use like a tablet.
Some have removable screens where you separate the screen from the rest of the laptop. While others have special hinges that enable you to fold the entire device up and use it like a tablet. The latter are called rotating screens. If the screen is removable, you will lose access to any ports or components in the base but effectively have a tablet computing device.
A hybrid laptop tablet is most often a device with a tablet form factor that is designed to integrate with a detachable keyboard which may or may not come bundled with the device. Some of these keyboards may double as soft slash pliable covers for the tablet. See figure 23.4 866 Mike Myers com Tiaa plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs, innovative portable form figure 23.4 Microsoft surface Pro six with its keyboard cover used with permission from Microsoft.
While others are built more like a small traditional keyboard, you may also hear someone use the term slate to describe a hybrid or tablet designed for use with a special pin, an input device called a Stylus 1001 input devices. Portable computers come with a variety of input devices. Most have a fully functional keyboard in a device to control the mouse pointer keyboard.
Quirks laptop keyboards differ somewhat from those of desktop computers. Primarily because manufacturers have to cram all the keys onto a smaller form factor. They use the quy format. But manufacturers make choices with key size and placement of the non alphabet characters. Almost every portable keyboard uses a function FN key to enable some keys to perform an extra duty.
You'll either hold the FN key to access the extra function or you'll hold it to access the traditional function. The latter is more common with extra functions on the F one F 12 keys on some systems. You can also configure this behavior. Figure 23.5 compares a laptop keyboard with a standard desktop keyboard. You'll note that the former has no separate number pad on the factors like those in the hybrid and convertible categories are often designed to be handled, rotated,
flipped and passed around as a result. Windows now supports the automatic screen rotation tricks we've seen on smartphones and tablets for years. Anyone who has used a device like this for long knows that occasionally you'll run into problems with the automatic screen orientation sensor. See the troubleshooting portable computers section later in the chapter for fixes figure 23.5 keyboard comparison chapter 23 portable computing 867 right.
To use the number pad, you press the FN key lower left in this case to transform the 789 U I O J K L N M keys into the 789456123 N zero keys, pointing devices. The FN key also enables you to toggle other features specific to a portable such as GPS tracking or the keyboard backlight to save battery life. Use the settings device's mouse dialog or the mouse applet in control panel.
For touchpad configuration, you can change sensitivity and much more. In either tool portables need a way to control your mouse pointer. But their smaller size requires manufacturers to come up with clever solutions. Beyond the built in solutions, portables usually have USB ports and can use every type of pointing device you'd see on a desktop.
Early portables used track balls often plugged in like a mouse and clipped to the side of the case. Other models with track balls placed them in front of the keyboard at the edge of the case nearest the user or behind the keyboard at the edge nearest the screen. The next wave to hit the laptop market was ibm's trackpoint device. A joystick, the size of a pencil eraser situated in the center of the keyboard.
See figure 23.6 with the track point, you can move the pointer around without taking your fingers away from the home typing position. You use a forefinger to push the joystick around and then click or right click using two buttons below the Spacebar. This type of pointing device has since been licensed for use by other manufacturers and it continues to appear on laptops today.
By far, the most common laptop pointing device found today is the in the past, it was common to accidentally use a touch pad with your palm while typing. So you may find some devices with a hardware switch or FN key combination for disabling the touch pad. More recent touch pads are usually capable of detecting and ignoring accidental input like this on their own touch pad.
See figure 23.7, a flatt touch sensitive pad just in front of the keyboard to operate a touch pad, you simply glide your finger across its surface to move the pointer and tap the surface once or twice to single or double click. You can also click by using buttons just below the pad. Most people get the hang of this technique. After just a few minutes of practice.
The main advantage of the touch pad over previous laptop pointing devices is that it uses no moving parts effect that can really extend the life of a hard working laptop. Some manufacturers today include a multi touch touch pad that enables you to perform gestures or actions with multiple fingers such as scrolling up and down or swiping to another screen or desktop.
The multi touch track pad on Apple's laptops pioneered such great improvements to the laptop pointing device experience that the lack of a mouse is no longer a handicap on many laptops. Figure 23.6 IBM trackpoint figure 23.7 touchpad on a laptop, 868 Mike Myers coma A plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs. Continuing the trend of mobile's influence on more traditional portable bless a growing number of laptops now come equipped with a touch screen like you would
find on a smartphone or tablet. Again, relying heavily on gestures to enable users to fluidly perform complex actions. In some cases, these are otherwise very traditional laptops that happen to include a touch screen. But in other cases, they are devices that are intended to be used as both a tablet and a laptop. We'll take a closer look at touchscreens.
When we discuss mobile devices in chapter 24 webcams and microphones, the ability to communicate with others through real time video is such a common expectation of mobile and portable devices. These days that most of these devices including laptops come equipped with some sort of front facing video camera, a webcam in the case of laptops and one or more built in microphones.
A single microphone may be suitable for picking up the user's voice and additional microphones can help noise cancellation routines improve the audio quality. Even though most of us may just use the microphone in conjunction with the webcam. A growing number of programs support voice commands. Take Microsoft for example, which promotes its cortana functionality built into windows.
10 any windows, 10 user on a system with a microphone. As long as they can live with letting windows listen in on them can perform voice searches and other actions from anywhere with an earshot mics shot of their device. The downside of these input devices becoming ubiquitous is the security risk they pose it might be bad enough if a nefarious hacker or government agency from any country managed to get malware into my computer to see everything I click or type.
But the risks are amplified if they can also hear and see anything going on near the device. It's common enough for webcams to include a light that indicates when they're recording but built in microphones don't do the same. In some cases, vulnerabilities allow the recording indicator to be disabled. Anyway, display types, laptops come in a variety of sizes and at varying costs, one major contributor to the overall cost of a laptop is the size of the LCD screen.
Most laptops offer a range between 10.1 inch to 17.3 inch screens measured diagonally while a few offer just over 20 inch screens in the past four colon three aspect ratio screens were common. But these days, it's hard to find one on anything but special purpose or ruggedized laptops. Almost all regular laptops come in one of two wide screen format ratios.
Aspect ratio is the comparison of the screen width to the screen height. As you'll recall from Chapter 17 display technologies. While wide screens can have varying aspect ratios, almost all of the screens you find in present day laptops will be 16 colon nine or 16 10 laptop screens typically come with one of two types of finish matte or high gloss.
The met finish was the industry standard for many years and offered a good trade-off between color richness and glare reduction. The better screens have a wide viewing angle and decent response time. Chapter 23 portable computing, 869 laptop lcds are the same in almost every way as desktop lcds with a T FT screen, an inverter if using a CCF backlight and a backlight CCF or led you know all about these screens from Chapter 17 expect questions about laptop displays but know that
they're pretty much the same as desktop displays. The only major difference is that the LCD frame contains an antenna and may contain a camera and microphone. But we'll discuss this later in the chapter. The major drawback for matte finished laptop screens is that they wash out a lot in bright light using such a laptop at an outdoor cafe, for example, is almost hopeless during daylight manufacturers released high gloss laptop screens more than a decade ago and they rapidly
took over many store shelves. The high gloss finish offers sharper contrast richer colors and wider viewing angles. When compared to the met screens, the drawback to the high gloss screens is that contrary to what the manufacturers claim they pick up lots of reflection from nearby objects including the user. So although they're usable outside during the day, you will need to contend with increased reflection as well.
With the advent of led backlighting for LCD panels, many manufacture the COMPT plus 1001 exam objectives refer to displays for laptops. Several makers have experimented with OLED laptop screens recently, but most appear to have backed away from the technology for now. You may not see one in the wild but know they exist for the exam tours have switched back to an anti glare screen though they're not quite the met screens of old when the led brightness is up high.
These are lovely screens see the troubleshooting portable computers section later in this chapter for issues specific to lead backlit portables as with other LCD technologies that you will recall from Chapter 17, most LCD slash LEDs screens use twisted Nomadic TN technology. Some laptop screens use in plain switching IPs panels for the greater viewing angle and better color quality.
You will mostly find IPs panels on higher grade portables. What you will not find on portables are two other display technologies, plasma and organic light emitting diode plasma displays demand a lot more electricity than LCDs demand and are completely inappropriate for portable devices. Ed screens, sip energy when compared to lcds.
But they're still so expensive that you will mostly find them on smartphones and tablets. Today. Chapter 24 discusses OED screen technology extending portable computers in the dark ages of mobile computing. You had to shell out top dollar for any device that would operate unplugged. And what you purchased was what you got upgrade a laptop, connect to external devices.
You had few if any options. So you simply paid for a device that would be way behind the technology curve within a year and functionally obsolete within two portable computers. Today offer a few ways to enhance their capabilities. Most feature external ports that enable you to add completely new functions such as attaching a scanner, mobile printer or both.
You can take advantage of the latest wireless technology breakthrough. Simply by slipping a card into the appropriate slot on the laptop, I'll first describe single function ports and then turn to networking options. Next, I'll cover card slots and then finish with a discussion of general purpose ports, single function ports, all portable computers come with one or more single function ports.
You'd have a hard time finding a portable computing device that doesn't have an audio port. For example, laptops often provide a video port for hooking up an external monitor. The wireless screen sharing and screen casting are gaining popularity as an alternative 870 Mike Myers com TIA plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs ports work the same way on portable computers as they do on desktop models, you plug in a device to a particular port end.
As long as the operating system has the proper drivers, you will have a functioning device. When you boot audio, portable computers have a standard 3.5 millimeters audio output in some have a similarly sized microphone in port C figure 23.8. Though built in microphones are increasingly common, you can plug in headphones, regular PC speakers or even a nice surround sound set to enable the laptop to play music just as well as a desktop computer kin.
You can control the sound both out and in through the appropriate control panel, applet in windows system preferences in Mac Os or some kind of switches on the laptop. The portable in figure 23.9, for example, enables you to mute the speakers by pressing a special mute button above the keyboard. Other portables use a combination of the FN key and another key to toggle mute, on and off as well as to play, pause, fast forward and rewind audio or any other media options.
Most portables will have volume up slash down controls in the same location. Display. Most laptops support a second monitor via a digital port of some sort. There are many of these, you may find HDMI including mini HDMI and micro HDMI display port including USB type C and thunderbolt and DVI on ancient or special purpose portables. There's even a chance you may still find an analog VGA with a second monitor attached.
You can duplicate your screen to the new monitor or extend your desktop across both displays, letting you move windows between them. Not all portables can do all variations, but they're more common than not most portables use the FN key plus another key on the keyboard to cycle through display options, figure 23.10 shows a typical keyboard with the FN key note.
The other options you can access with the FN key such as indicated on the F two key to engage the second monitor or to cycle through the modes, hold the FN key and press F two. You can control what the external monitor shows by adjusting your operating systems, display settings in windows 10, this is all contained figure 23.8 standard audio ports.
Although many laptops use the function key method to cycle the monitor selections. That's not always the case you might have to pop into the display applet or system preferences to click. A checkbox. Just be assured that if the laptop has a video output port, you can cycle through monitor choices, figure 23.9, the mute button on a laptop figure 23.10 laptop keyboard showing function FN key that enables you to access additional key options.
As on the F two key chapter 23 portable computing 871 figure 23.11, multiple display options. Menu in windows 10 the coma A plus 1001 exam objectives refer to multiple monitors as dual displays in the display area of the settings. App, open the settings app and navigate to system display from there. Scroll down till you find the multiple displays section.
See figure 23.11, you'll see a drop down menu with several options. Extend these displays, makes your desktop encompass both the laptop and the external monitor. Duplicate these displays places the same thing on both displays. You duplicate these displays for a presentation, for example, rather than for a workspace smartcard reader.
It isn't really a port but you'll find some portable computers. Figure 23.12 smartcard, especially ones designed for and marketed to business users with a very thin slot, the width of a credit card on one side or the other. No, it isn't an expansion or memory card slot. It's a smart card reader. If you've seen a credit or debit card with a little metallic chip, see figure 23.12, you've seen a smart card while smart cards have tons of uses.
What matters here is that you can log into a portable device if it has a built in or USB smartcard reader, using your smart card in a pin number. We'll go into a little more detail on the use of smart cards for authentication. In chapter 27 securing computers networking options. It's a rare item to find a portable computer without at least one network connection option.
Today's portables come with some combination of 802.11 Bluetooth and wired Ethernet connections. Generally, they work exactly as 872 Mike Myers com tia plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs you've seen in previous chapters, but you may stumble into a few issues that are unique to portables, mobile devices, tablets, smartphones get even more options.
As you will see in chapter 24 802.11 wireless. Most portables today have Wi Fi built directly into the chip set for connecting the device to a wireless access point web. And from there to a bigger network such as the internet. The 802.11 G or 802.11 N standard is common on older laptops. Newer portable computers use 802.11 AC Bluetooth. While not quite as ubiquitous as 802.11.
Most portables use Bluetooth as well. Bluetooth is really handy on a laptop because as you may recall from chapter 20 wireless networking, it enables you to add wireless peripherals such as mice, keyboards and headsets as well as communicate with smartphones, speakers and other Bluetooth devices, hardware switches, portable computers that come with wireless technologies such as 802.11 mobile broadband GPS or Bluetooth have some form of on slash off switch to toggle the
antenna off or on so that you may use the laptop in areas where emissions aren't allowed like a commercial aircraft. The switch may be hardwired like the one shown in figure 23.13 or it may be a toggle of the FN key plus another key on the keyboard. Also, if you're not using wifi or Bluetooth, turn them off to save electricity and lengthen the portable battery life, wired Ethernet, most full size laptops have an RJ 45 wired Ethernet connection like the one shown in figure 23.14.
These work exactly like any other Ethernet jack. They have link lights and connect via TP cable, be aware. However, that wired Ethernet is one of the things, many smaller contemporary laptops and hybrids leave out. There are two issues with RJ 45 S on laptops. First, they do not have an on slash off switch like the 802.11 and Bluetooth connections, you can turn them off just like you would turn off the nick on a desktop, disable the Nick and device manager or turn the nick off in bios.
The other issue is the relative weakness of the physical connection if you ever plug a laptop into a wired network and the OS doesn't see a connection check the RJ 45 port, portable specific expansion slots. The makers of portable computers have developed methods for you to add features to a portable via specialized connections known generically as expansion slots.
For many years, the person computer memory card International Association PCM CIA established standards involving portable computers especially when it came to expansion cards and slots. Once a common feature on laptops, these specialized expansion slots are almost chapter 23 portable computing hardware switches or special function key toggles enable you to switch features on and off such as wireless networking, cellular networking and Bluetooth toggle them off
when in a scenario where battery life takes priority over networking. While the newest portables are shipping with 802.11. AC be aware that especially as portables are getting powerful enough to live longer useful lives. You may see a few previous standards built into devices in the wild figure 23.13, wireless switch figure 23.14 Ethernet port on laptop.
873. Impossible to find due to the dominance of USB. The last standard was called Express Card. Express card comes in two widths, 34 millimeters and 54 millimeters called Express card slash 34 Express card slash 54 figure 23.15 shows both Express card variety. Both cards are 75 millimeters long and five millimeters thick. You can enhance an older laptop that has an Express card slot in several ways.
The most common are adding a smart card reader so the portable can grab pictures off an SD card. For example, in a cellular card, the latter enables you to connect the laptop to the internet via a valid cellular telephone subscription like you would get from at and T or Verizon. You can also find wireless cards though the limits of Express card technology tops these out at 802.11 N.
Not the most current wifi options. Express cards connect to either the high speed USB 2.0 bus or the PCI figure 23.1 534 millimeters and 54 millimeters. Express cards, express bus. These differ phenomenally in speed. The amazingly slow in comparison USB version has a maximum throughput of 480 mps. The PCI version in contrast roars in at 2.5 gbps in unit directional communication table 23.1 shows the throughput and variations for Express cards table 23.1 express card speeds
standard express card using high speed USB 2.0 bus express card using PCI E bus maximum theoretical throughput, 480 MVPs, 2.5 GBPS storage card slots. Many portable computers offer one or more flash memory card slots too enable you to add storage to the portable. These slots also enable the fast transfer of data from the card to the portable and vice versa.
They come in the standard varieties that you already know from chapter 10 essential peripherals such as SD or microsd general purpose ports, portable computers rarely come with all of the hardware you want. Today's laptops usually include at least USB ports to give you the option to add more hardware. Some special purpose laptops may still provide legacy general purpose expansion ports.
PS slash two RS 232 serial ports, a firewire and so on for installing peripheral hardware. While other portables focus on more modern ports like thunderbolt. If you're lucky, you will have a docking station. So you don't have to plug in all of your peripheral devices. One at a time USB thunderbolt, firewire and USA, a universal serial bus, USB thunderbolt and firewire or more properly.
I triple E 1394 enable users to connect a device while the computer is running, you won't have to reboot the system to install a new peripheral with USB and firewire. Just plug the device in and go because portables don't have a desktop's multiple internal expansion capabilities. USB and thunderbolt 874 Mike Myers com, Tiaa plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs and firewire to a much lesser extent are some of the more popular methods for attaching peripherals to
laptops and other portables. C figure 23.16, figure 23.16 devices attached to USB on a portable PC cross check modern general purpose ports. You explored USB firewire and thunderbolt back in chapter 10 essential peripherals. What kind of connectors do USB firewire and thunderbolt use? What are the cable length limitations? How many devices can each technology support docking stations?
Docking stations offer legacy in modern single and multi function ports. See figure 23.17. The traditional docking station uses appropriator connection though the high speeds of USB three dot X and Thunderbolt two and three have made universal docks more common. A docking station makes an excellent companion to small portables with fewer ports, port replicators, a port replicators supplies one of the most critical aspects of docking T S but in a smaller more portable
format support for connectors that the laptop lacks a modern USB type C port replicator, for example, will plug into a laptop's USBC port and offer an array of other port types such as VGA HDMI USB type A 233.1 RJ 45 more port replicators work great with ultra light, ultra thin laptops to enhance the capabilities of the machine USB adapters.
When you don't need access to a number of ports at once, you can often find a USB adapter for whatever you need to connect when it comes to drives or connectors that you need. Only occasionally these adapters can enable you to use a much more portable device. Two great examples of this are wired ethernet and optical drives. I don't know about you but I haven't spun up an optical disk in months.
Nor am I sure when I last opened my laptop within a few feet of a wired Ethernet connection. A USB to Ethernet RJ 45 dongle and a USB optical drive kin chapter 23 portable computing. 875 figure 23.17 docking station provide these features when and where I need them. Leaving me a much smaller laptop to carry the rest of the time. The 1001 exam expects you to be familiar with USB to Ethernet adapters.
Another good use for USB adapters is updating connectivity support for older devices. A USB to Wi fi dongle or a USB Bluetooth adapter can let me update an old laptop to a 2.11 AC or add Bluetooth to a laptop that didn't come with it built in managing and maintaining portable computers. Most portables come from the factory, fully assembled and configured from a text standpoint.
Your most common work on managing and maintaining portables involves taking care of the batteries and extending the battery life through proper power management. Keeping the machine clean and avoiding excessive heat. Everything you normally do to maintain a computer applies to portable tech tip, lithium polymer, strictly speaking, lithium polymer lipo batteries are a variation of le that places the heart of the battery, the electrolyte into a solid polymer shape
rather than an organic solvent. This enables the batteries to take on unusual forms. Beyond the simple cylinder or rectangle shapes. In practice, most of the batteries people call lipo are actually traditional Leon electrolyte packed in polymer bags. Instead of a rigid case lipo batteries haven't replaced Leon in most portables but they are used a lot in smaller electronics such as tablets, smartphones, portable media players and in compact portable computers such as
hybrids and ultrabooks, a super thin laptop form factor computers. You need to keep current on OS updates and use stable. Recent drivers use appropriate tools to monitor the health of your storage drives and clean up unwanted files. That said let's look at issues specifically involving portables with one caveat because more compact or hybrid portables are often built like mobile devices.
You may need to approach those devices by combining steps mentioned here with troubleshooting ideas from chapter 25 care and feeding of mobile devices. Batteries manufacturers over the years have used a few types of batteries for portable computers, nickel cadmium nic CD, nickel metal hydride NIH and lithium ion lion. Today only Leon is used because that battery chemistry provides the highest energy density for the weight and has few problems with external factors.
Lithium ion li ion batteries are powerful and last much longer than the NIH and NCD ones we used in the 19 nineties. If Leon batteries have a downside, it's that they will explode if overcharged or punctured. So all lesion batteries have built in circuitry to prevent accidental overcharging lithium batteries can only power systems designed to use them.
They can't be used as replacement batteries to keep that retro laptop from 1998. Going figure 23.18 shows a typical LE ion battery. The care and feeding of batteries figure 23.18, 876 le battery in general. Keep in mind the following basics. First, always store batteries in a cool place. Although a freezer might seem like an excellent storage place.
The moisture, extreme, freezing, cold metal racks and food make it a bad idea. Second, keep the battery charged at least to 70 to 80%. 3rd, never drain a battery all the way down unless required to do so. As part of a Mike Myers com tiaa plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs battery calibration where you in essence reset the battery according to steps provided by the manufacturer, rechargeable batteries have only a limited number of charge discharge cycles before
overall battery performance is reduced. Fourth, never handle a battery that has ruptured or broken. Battery chemicals are very dangerous and flammable. Check youtube for videos of what happens when you puncture a lesion or lipo battery. Finally, always recycle old batteries. Try this recycling old portable device battery. Got an old portable device battery lying around.
Well, you need to get rid of it and there are some pretty toxic chemicals in that battery so you can't just throw it in the trash sooner or later, you'll probably need to deal with such a battery. So try this one, do an online search to find the battery recycling center nearest to you. Electronics retailers are getting much better about accepting a wide array of e waste including batteries though they often place quantity limits two.
Sometimes you can take old laptop batteries to an auto parts store that disposes of old car batteries. I know it sounds odd but it's true. See if you can find one in your area that will do this. Three many cities offer a hazardous materials disposal or recycling service. Check to see if and how your local government will help you dispose of your old batteries.
Power management. Many different parts are included in the typical laptop and each part uses power. The problem with early laptops was that every one of these parts used power continuously, whether or not the system needed the device at that time. For example, the hard drive continued to spin even when it was not being accessed, the CP ran at full speed even when the system was doing light work and the LCD panel continued to display.
Even when the user walked away from the machine. Over the years, a lot of work has gone into improving the battery life of portable devices. Beyond engineering, better batteries and ever more efficient components. The system firmware and OS of most modern portables collaborate with the firmware of individual components to manage their power use to reduce power use.
The computer can power off unused components until they are needed. Enter a low power mode when the device isn't in use and throttle the performance of power hungry components like the CP to fit the current workload. This process of cooperation among the hardware bios and OS to reduce power use is known general Kelly as Power management chapter 23 portable computing 877 low power mode name's kin differ from O to OS and even from version to version.
But the basic concepts are the same low power modes. If you don't know what's going on under the hood, computers usually appear to be clearly off or on. In reality, most computers, both desktops and portables that appear to be off are using at least a little power and maybe in one of a few low power modes. The A plus 2, +201002 exam focuses on configuring basic power options in the windows control panel, but it's good to have a handle on low power modes.
In general, when the computer is off, turning it on will boot the OS from scratch. You can think of there being two kinds of true off mode, mechanical off mode. The system in all components, with the exception of the real-time clock RDC are off soft power off mode. The system is mostly off except for components necessary for the keyboard len or USB devices to wake the system computers that appear to be off may actually be in asleep, also called stand by or suspend mode.
Waking them will resume any programs processes and windows that were open when they entered the low power mode. There are a number of fine grained sleep modes but the highlights are a device can wake quickly from normal sleep mode, sometimes called suspension ram because it doesn't power down the ram enabling the system to save its place.
If the device loses power unexpectedly, it can lose whatever was in ram. Devices wake more slowly from a deeper sleep mode called hibernate or suspend to disk because they save everything in ram to a hard drive and restoring it all takes a moment before powering down on the upside. Hibernation saves more power and won't lose its place. If the device loses power, configuring power options, you configure power options via the system set up utility or through the operating system.
OS settings, override CMO settings implementations differ. But certain settings apply generally like the ability to enable or disable power management. Configure which devices can wake the system, configure what the power button does and configure what the system should do when power is restored after an outage operating systems tend to use friendly terms like energy options or power options.
But you might run into some more technical terms in a sos 10 configuration utility. If you can't find these settings under an obvious name, they might be named for the Intel developed specifications that define them advanced power management, apm or advanced configuration and power interface. A CPI, APM was introduced in 1992 and succeeded by A CPI in 1996.
Many CMOS versions present settings to determine wake up events such as directing the system to monitor a mode or A N. See figure 23.19. You'll see this feature as wake on land or something. Similar figure 23.20 shows a system setup utility with an API setup option 878 Mike Myers com tiaa plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs in windows, APM slash A CPI settings can be found in the power and sleep settings app in Windows 10 in the control panel applet power options.
Windows offers power plans that enable better control over power use by customizing a balanced high performance or powers saver power plan. See figure 23.21, you can customize a power plan four, your laptop, for example, and configure it to turn off the display at a certain time interval while on battery versus plugged in or configure it to put the computer to sleep.
See figure 23.22 to see the specific power plans. Click additional power settings or go directly to the control panel. Power options applet there you can tweak a lot more including choices like hibernation. see figure 23.23, figure 23.19 setting a wake up event in CMOS while you can customize most laptops, power plans to your heart's content on some models such as Microsoft's Surface Pro line.
You are restricted to just the default balanced plan figure 23.20 CMOS with a CPI setup option, figure 23.21 windows, eight balanced high performance and power saver power plan options. Chapter 23 portable computing 879 figure 23.22, customizing a laptop power plan in windows, 10 figure 23.23 windows, 10 hibernation settings in the power options.
Applet manual control over power use most portables give you several manual options for reducing battery use in certain circumstances. We've already discussed using the on slash off switch or keyboard combinations for disabling the Wi Fi antenna or shutting off Bluetooth. But many modern portables borrow a feature from smartphones and tablets for disabling most or all of their wireless components at once.
880 Mike Myers com tiaa plus guide to managing and troubleshooting PCS. Airplane mode. Beyond its intended use, airplane mode is also a great way to disable power sucking components quickly. Try this, adjusting your system's power management. Go into the power options, applet on a windows computer and look at the various settings. What is the current power plan for the computer?
Check to see if it is running a balanced or high performance power plan. If it is change the power plan to power saver and click change plan settings. Familiarize yourself with some of the advanced power settings. Click on the change, advanced power settings link, try changing the individual settings for each power scheme. For instance, set a new value for the turn off the display setting.
Try making your display turn off after five minutes. Don't worry, you aren't going to hurt anything. If you fiddle with these settings. Note that Microsoft changed power settings for laptops in windows tend to be balanced, you can still adjust advanced power settings and tweak everything. Laptops with backlit keyboards will have some way you can disable this feature when it's not needed.
Usually with a keyboard combination, you can also reduce the output of the LCD back light using a combination of FN and another key to eke out a few more precious minutes of computing time before you have to shut down figure 23.24 shows a close up of the FN activated keys for adjusting screen brightness. One of the best ways to conserve battery is to plan ahead for times when you will be unplugged.
This can mean a lot of different things in practice, but they all boil down to thinking of ways to minimize the number of programs and hardware devices slash radios you will need to use while your laptop is running on battery power. When I travel, for example, and know that I'm going to need a certain set of files stored on my file server at the office.
I put those files on my laptop before I leave while it's still plugged into the AC. It's tempting to throw the files on a thumb drive. So I don't have to break out my laptop at the office or to let dropbox do my syncing for me when I get to a Wi Fi hotspot. But both usb and wifi use electricity better than that windows enables me to designate the files and folders I need is offline files, storing a local duplicate copy of the files and fold er on my hard drive.
When I connect my laptop to my office network, those offline files are automatically synced with the files and folders on the file server. Anything I changed on the laptop gets written to the server. Anything anyone changed in those folders on the server gets written to my laptop if changes were made on both sides. A sync conflict pops up automatically enabling me to resolve problems without fear of overwriting anything important to designate a folder in its contents as
offline files, right? Click the folder you want and select always available offline from the context menu. The sync will occur and you are done when you want to open the files offline. Go to chapter 23 portable computing 881 figure 23.24 keys for adjusting screen brightness, the control panel and open the sync center applet, see figure 23.25.
Click the manage offline files, link in the tasks list to open the offline files, dialog box, see figure 23.26, click the view your offline files button. And you're in another option for extending battery life is to bring a spare battery. Some smaller portable devices have range extending external recharger that can also help figure 23.25 sink center applet cleaning.
Most portable computers take substantially more abuse than a corresponding desktop model, constant handling, travel, airport food on the run and so on can radically shorten the life of a portable if you don't take action. One of the most important things you should do is clean the device regularly use figure 23.26, 882 offline files, dialog box, Mike Myers com TIAA plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs, an appropriate screen cleaner, not a glass cleaner to remove
fingerprints and dust from the fragile LCD panel. Refer to chapter 17, for specifics, we'll go into greater detail on environmental threats in chapter 27. But if you've had the portable in a smoky or dusty environment where air quality alone can cause problems, try cleaning it with compressed air. Compressed air works great for blowing out dust and crumbs from the keyboard and for keeping any ports, slots and sockets clear, don't use water on your keyboard.
Even a little moisture inside the portable Quin Tosta component heat to manage and maintain a healthy portable computer. You need to deal with heat issues. Every portable has a stack of electronic components crammed into a very small space. Unlike their desktop brethren portables don't have lots of freely moving airspace that enables fans to cool everything down.
Even with lots of low power consumption devices inside portable can putts, crank out a good deal of heat. Excessive heat can cause system lockups and hardware failures. So you should handle the issue wisely. The following steps have more traditional portables in mind. Vary. Compact portables are usually designed to handle heat more like mobile devices.
Chapter 25 will approach heat issues with mobile device construction in mind for more traditional portables. Try this as a starter guide use power management even if you are plugged into the AC outlet. This is especially important if you're working in a warm more than 80 F room. Keep air space between the bottom of the laptop and the surface on which it rests.
Putting a laptop on a soft surface such as a pillow on your lap, creates a great heat retention system. Not a good thing. Always use a hard flat surface. Don't use a keyboard protector for extended amounts of time. Listen to your fan, assuming the laptop has one. If it's often running very fast, you can tell by the worrying sound, examine your power management settings, environment and running programs so you can change whatever is causing heat retention.
Speaking of fans be alert to a fan that suddenly goes silent. Fans do fail on laptops causing overheating and failure protecting the machine. Although prices continue to drop for basic laptops, a fully loaded system is still pricey to protect your investment, you will want to adhere to certain best practices. You've already read tips in this chapter to deal with cleaning and heat.
So let's look at the portable part of portable computers, tripping. Pay attention to where you run the power cord when you plug in a laptop. One of the primary causes of laptop destruction is people tripping over the power cord and knocking the laptop off of a desk. This is especially true if you plug in at a public place such as a cafe or airport. Remember the life you save could be your portables chapter 23 portable computing 883 storage.
If you aren't going to use your portable for a while storing it safely, will go a long way toward keeping it operable when you do power it up again. A quality case is worth the extra few dollars, preferably one with ample padding. Not only will this protect your system on a daily basis when transporting it from home to office, but it will keep dust and pet hair away as well.
Shipping insurance. And when the clerk asks what's in the box, it's safer to say electronics rather than a new 17 inch laptop computer security. The fact is if someone really wants to steal your laptop, they'll find a way while we cover securing devices against physical theft. In chapter 27 there are some things you can do to make yourself and your portable devices less desirable targets as you've already learned.
Disguise is a good idea. Another physical deterrent is a laptop lock similar to a steel bicycle cable. There is a loop on one end and a lock on the other. The idea is to loop the cable around a solid object such as a bed frame and secure the lock to the small security hole on the site of the laptop. See figure 23.28. Again, if someone really wants to steal your computer, they'll find a way they'll dismantle the bed frame.
If they're desperate, the best protection is to be vigilant and not let the computer out of your sight. An alternative to securing a laptop with a physical lock is to use a software tracking system that makes use of GPS. It won't keep your device from being taken but tracking software can use the many sensors and networking capabilities of modern devices to help recover them.
While functionality differs by application. Common features include seeing the location of the stolen computer, capturing images or audio with its sensors and wiping sensitive files from the device. Because this functionality is more common in mobile devices. We'll save the details for Chapter 25 upgrading and repairing laptop computers.
A competent tech can upgrade and repair portable computers to a degree. Though true laptop techs are specialists upgrading. The basics usually means breaking out the trustee screwdriver and avoiding electrostatic discharge ESD repairing portables successfully. On the other hand requires research, patience, organization, special tools and documentation.
Plus, you need a ridiculously steady hand. This section provides an overview of the upgrade and repair process. Keep in mind that the growing number of form factors and the shrinking size of portable devices mean there are many exceptions, especially for very compact portables. These devices may chapter 23 portable computing 885 figure 23.28 cable lock be trickier to take apart and components may be sorted on or use less common interfaces.
Disassembly process, disassembling. A portable PC is usually pretty easy if it was designed to be upgraded or serviced by casual users putting it back together in working condition is the hard part. You need to follow a four step process to succeed in disassembly slash reassembly first document and label every cable and screw location laptops don't use no.
The fourth step disassembly process for the COMPT A plus 2, +201001 exam document and label cable and screw locations. Organized parts, refer to the manufacturer's resources, use appropriate hand tools, standard connectors or screws. Often you will run into many tiny screws of varying threads. If you try to put a screw into the wrong hole, you could end up stripping the screw, stripping the hole or getting the screw wedged into the wrong place.
Second, organize any parts you extract from the laptop. Seriously put a big white piece of construction paper on your work surface, lay each extracted piece out in logical fashion and clearly mark where each component connects and what it connects to as well. You may even want to use a smartphone camera to take pictures or a webcam to record your workspace in case something goes missing.
Third, refer to the manufacturer's resources. I can't stress this point enough. Unlike desktops, portables have no standardization of internal structure. Everything in the portable is designed according to the manufacturer's best engineering efforts, two portables from the same manufacturer might have a similar layout inside, but it's far more likely that every model differs a lot.
Finally, you need to use the appropriate hand tools, a portable, especially on the inside will have a remarkable variety of tiny screws that you can't remove slash reinsert without tiny headed phillips or torques drivers. You will need tiny pry bars, metal and plastic to open components. Figure 23.29 shows an entry level toolkit for a laptop tech that you can order from ifixit dot com.
More on this site in a moment. Their professional toolkit version has 70 tools plus, there's an expansion kit. Like I said, at the beginning of this section, portable techs are specialists now that you have the official line on the disassembly process. Let's get one thing clear. A lot of manufacturers don't provide access to their resources to just any tech but only to authorized repair centers.
So what do you do when faced with an unfamiliar laptop that a client brought in for repair? You have essentially two options. First, you can find a dedicated laptop check and refer your client to that person if the problem is exceptionally complicated and the portable in question is mission critical. That's often the best option if you want to tackle the problem or it looks like something you should be able to do.
Then you go to third party sources, youtube and ifixit dot com. Every portable computer has a specific make and model, open up a web browser and go to youtube type in precisely what you want to do such as Dell and Sprint 5567 keyboard replacement and see what pops up. See figure 23.30, you will most likely get results back, especially if the laptop in question is a couple of years old people all over the world have to deal with broken devices.
So you're not alone, 886 Mike Myers com tia plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs. Figure 23.29, bare minimum laptop repair tools. Once you've found the appropriate video or something that's close enough to enable the repair attempt, watch it. If it's too difficult for your skill level or requires a set of expensive tools, then fall back to step one and go find a dedicated tech.
Otherwise figure out what tools and parts you need parts specific to a laptop as in that Dell keyboard. In the preceding example, will need to be purchased from the manufacturer. More generic parts like hard drives, cps and so on can be purchased from Newegg, my favorite tech store or some other online retailer for general tools, parts and a lot of very detailed step by step instructions.
I highly recommend ifixit dot com build as the free repair guide for everything written by everyone. Ifixit is built by techs like you and me who conquer a problem, document the steps and post the details. See figure 23.31. This means the next tech along who runs into the same problem. Doesn't have to reinvent the wheel. Just chapter 23 portable computing figure 23.30 youtube search result 887 figure 23.31 sum of the Dell laptop repair walkthrough at ifixit dot com.
Go to ifixit dot com. The proceeds from parts and tools they sell, by the way, go to supporting the site standard upgrades. Every Tiaa plus tech should know how to perform the two standard upgrades to portable computers, adding Ram and replacing a hard drive. Let's go through the steps, upgrading ram figure 23.322 and four pins.
So Dimick front and back 888 stock factory portable computers almost always come with a minimal amount of ram. So one of the first laptop upgrades you will be called on to do is to add more ram. Luckily most laptops have upgradable ram slots,
D A and M 0.2. If you have a newer portable, chances are the computer uses one of the newer smaller SSD formats MSA or M 10.2, you read about them in detail back in chapter eight, but glance back to refresh your memory. If necessary, most manufacturers make it fairly easy to replace or upgrade an MSA or M 80.2 drive. Remove the bottom plate or dedicated drive bay covering from the computer, remove the tiny retaining screw and pop the old drive out.
Put the new drive in its place, insert the retaining screw and reattach the covering. You're good to go at least from the hardware side of things. Shared memory. Some laptops and desktops support, shared memory, shared memory reduces the cost of video cards by reducing the amount of memory on the video card itself. The video card uses regular system ram to make up for the loss.
The obvious benefit of shared memory is a less expensive video card and a less expensive laptop with performance comparable to its mega memory alternative. The downside is that your overall system performance will suffer because a portion of the system ram is no longer available to programs. The term shared is a bit misleading because the video card takes control of a portion of ram.
The video portion of system ram is not shared back and forth between the video card processor and the CP. Some systems give you control over the amount of shared memory while others simply allow you to turn shared memory on or off. The settings are found in CMOS setup on systems that support shared memory, adding more system ram to a laptop with shared memory will improve laptop performance.
Although it might appear to improve video performance, that doesn't tell the true story. It'll improve overall performance because the OS and CP get more usable ram on some laptops, you can improve video performance as well. But that depends on the CMOS setup. If the shared memory is not set to maximum by default, increasing the overall memory and upping the portion reserved for video will improve video performance.
Specifically upgrading mass storage, you can replace a hard disk drive HDD, solid state drive SSD or solid state hybrid drive SSD in a portable fairly easily, especially if the laptop is only a few years old SOTA drives in the 2.5 inch drive format. Now rule in all laptops, although much smaller than regular 3.5 inch hard drives, they use all the same features in configurations as you'd expect the smaller size limits capacity.
The largest 2.5 inch hard drives hold up to five TB of data while 3.5 inch hard drives top out at more than eight TB of data. Unfortunately, most laptops only have room for drives seven millimeters or 9.5 millimeters thick. But the largest 2.5 inch drives are 15 millimeters thick. The largest 2.5 inch drives that will fit in a typical laptop top out at two TB figure 23.35 to 2.5 inch and 3.5 inch drives are mostly the same 890.
If you have an ancient laptop, it might have a Pota drive which means you need to pay more attention to cabling and jumpers. Some pota drive manufacturers may require you to set the drive to use a cable select setting as opposed to master or slave. So check with the laptop maker for any special issues. Otherwise, no difference exists between 2.5 inch drives and their larger 3.5 inch brethren.
See figure 23.35. One of the best upgrades you can make on a laptop is to go from an HDD to an SSD. Obviously, you'll get a lot less storage capacity for the money, but the trade-offs can be worth it. First. The SSD will use a lot less electricity than an HDD. Thus extending battery life. Second, any SSD is reprovingly faster than an HDD and performance across the board will Mike Myers com tiaa plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs be boosted for a time sds or hybrid drives
were a good compromise between the speed of an SSD and the size of a traditional HDD. These days, the inroads SSD have made on price and capacity have made SDS a lukewarm choice two in four TB. SSD are common though still a bit pricey while 500 gb sds are under $60. Try this comparing HDD with SSD today. As I write this chapter, you can get roughly twice the storage capacity on an HDD for the same cost as an SSD.
In other words, $60 spent on an SSD could give you 512 GB of storage, whereas you could purchase a one TB 2.5 inch HDD for the same $60. So do some comparison shopping. What's the price point? Now are the trade-offs worth it for you or for your clients to make the switch from HDD to SSD? The process of replacing a hard drive mirrors that of replacing ram.
You find the hard drive hatch either along one edge or in a compartment on the underside of the computer and release the screws. C figure 23.36, remove the old drive and then slide the new drive into its place. C figure 23.37, reattach the hatch or cover and boot the computer, grab a windows DVD or bootle USB flash drive and prepare to reinstall hardware slash device replacement.
Once you get beyond upgrading ram and replacing a hard drive on a portable, you take the plunge into the laptop repair specialty. You can replace some components by lifting them out. Detaching a ribbon figure 23.36, removing the drive compartment cover 1.8 inch drives exist though they have fallen out of favor as flash memory usurps their role in portable music players and other small portables.
These days, they are quite rare. If you find one, it almost certainly will be in an older portable. On the small end of the scale figure 23.37, inserting a replacement drive chapter 23 portable computing 891 cable and then reversing the steps with the replacement part. Other parts require a full tear down of the laptop to the bare bones, which presents a much greater magnitude of difficulty because every portable differs.
This section provides guidance but not concrete steps for replacement. Be aware as mentioned earlier that some systems are trending toward more integrated parts. Make sure the part you are replacing is actually replaceable in the specific system you're working on components, replaceable components require more work than the ram or drive upgrades.
But replacing them generally falls into the category of doable. What I call components are the battery, keyboard, optical drive, internal speaker, s frame expansion cards and CP battery. If a battery's performance falls below an acceptable level, you can replace it with a battery from the manufacturer or from an aftermarket vendor.
Although this should be a simple swap replacement and usually is at least if the battery isn't built in, you might encounter a situation where the real problem wasn't the battery per se but an inadequate or malfunctioning charging system. The new battery might not give you any better performance than the old one. Try it, keyboard, getting a keyboard off a laptop computer often requires little pry bars but also look for screws, clips and so on keyboards connect via a tiny short
and very delicate cable. Often held down by tape. Replacing one is tricky but doable optical drive replacing an optical drive can present a challenge if the drive is part of a modular system, just pop out the old drive and pop in a new one if the drive is part of the internal chassis of the portable. On the other hand, you are looking at a full dissection.
See the upcoming integral parts section for tips on dismantling the portable speaker, replacing the internal speaker or speakers on a laptop can be simp or a total pain depending on where the speakers connect. Some laptops have speakers mounted on the outside of the chassis, you pry off the cov er pull out the little speakers, disconnect the cable and then reverse the process for replacement speakers.
If the speakers are inside the chassis. On the other hand, you need to dismantle the portable to get to them. See the integral parts section frame, all of the sophisticated electrified components that make our portables work are held together by a variety of plastic metal and rubber parts. Generally these frame parts are pretty durable but over time or in an accident, these components can warp, bend, crack, split dent and chip frame parts can be replaced provided, you can
locate a suitable replacement part. You will need to know the device model to get started and you may also need to hunt down the part number using manufacturer or third party resources. Many device parts appear similar and some parts will appear in many other portables. You may also find that the part you need is only available as a piece of a larger assembly or group of parts in which case, you may end up paying a silly sum to get the part you need 892 Mike Myers com Tiaa Plus guide to
managing and troubleshooting pcs expansion cards. Many portables have one or more true expansion slots for add-on cards. The more modular varieties will have a hatch on the bottom of the case that opens like the hatch that gives you access to the ram slot. S this enables you to change out an 802.11 and wireless card, for example, for an 802.11 AC card.
Thus greatly enhancing the wifi experience on this device. Similarly, you could change out a Bluetooth module for an upgraded version. Figure 23.38 shows a wide open laptop with the expansion slot exposed. Just like when installing ram in a portable, you must avoid ESD and remove all electricity before you take out or put in an expansion card, failure to remove the battery in the AC adapter or follow any extra steps and precautions in the manufacturer's resources if the
battery is built in can and probably will result in a sorted out laptop motherboard and that just makes for a bad day. The only other consideration with expansion cards applies specifically to wireless. Not only will you need to connect the card to the slot properly, but you must reattach the antenna connection and often a separate power cable.
Pay attention when you remove the card as to the placement of these vital connections. You'll find one of two types of expansion slot in a portable mini C and M 20.2. The older ones think 2013 and earlier use mini C. While newer devices use M 20130.2 CP. Replacing a CP on a modern portable takes a lot more work than replacing ram or a mini C expansion card.
But follows the same gene L steps. Many CPS mount facing the bottom of the portable so that it vents away from your hands when sitting properly on a flat surface. The heated air also goes to the back of the laptop and not toward the user, you access the CP in this sort of system from the bottom of the portable. As you can see in figure 23.39, the CP has an elaborate heat sync and fan assembly that includes both the CP and the chip set each of the pieces screws down in multiple places.
Plus the fan has a power connection. Aside from the tiny screws, there's no difference here in process between replacing a mobile CP and replacing a desktop CP that you learned way back in chapter three CPS first, remove all power from the laptop including the battery. If possible, consult manufacturer or third party resources for any extra steps or precautions for systems with built-in batteries, remove the hatch to expose the CP, remove the heat sink and fan assembly and
lift out the CP, replace it with another CP. Apply thermal paste and reattach the heat sync and fan assembly reconnect the fan power connector and you are good to go chapter 23 portable computing figure 23.3.
Speaker 1
38 many C expansion ah check with the portable manufacturer to get a wifi card that's compatible with the portable just because a card will fit in the slot does not. In this case mean it will work figure 23.39 CP, heat sync and fan assembly exposed 893. The COMPT IA plus 1000 N one objectives mention both LCD and O display types for laptops when discussing possible scenarios where you'd install components within the display.
As discussed in chapter 17 ed, laptops did not exist for consumers. At least when the 1001 slash 1002 exams went live in early 2019. That said the process for replacing OED screens and components within the screens should mirror the process with lcds. Some laptops use passive cooling and may have the CP pointed up rather than down. They have a heat sink beneath the keyboard that cools everything down with that style laptop.
You remove the keyboard and heat sync to expose the CP display and its components. A laptop screen presents unique challenges when faced with a replacement scenario. The display has the typical parts you'd expect in an LCD such as the panel back, light ss an inverter on older portables plus the display typically has other components along for the ride such as the Wi Fi antenna, a webcam and a microphone.
Finally, a touchscreen display offers even more of a challenge. COMPT expects you to know the process for replacing the objectives, say installing but whatever the screen as well as each component within the display. Here's the scoop the process for replacing the screen, flat touch screen, digitize, expect a question or two on the TIA A plus 1001 exam on a typical scenario where replacement of the screen or components within the display needs to happen.
These are obvious cracked screen failure of the digitize slash touchscreen wi fi antenna malfunction and so on note that the specific objective language on the antenna is wifi antenna connector slash placement, which refers to the wireless antenna wires. Yes, that's an oxymoron that run along the top and sides of the display and connect with a tiny ribbon cable, inverter Wi Fi antenna webcam or microphone.
Follows the same steps. You pry the plastic frame off the display. Most commonly using a spudger or other tool from your Ifixit toolkit, then remove any exposed screws, the screen will lift out. Plus you will need to detach the internal parts. I can't give you precise details because one model differs from another. But the parts are usually secured with tiny screws or compression or mild adhesive.
Plus, you will need to gently disconnect data cables for each component. If you are just replacing a defective webcam or microphone, you won't need to disconnect other parts most likely. But if you need to replace the screen or inverter, you will have to remove everything. Take pictures with your phone, keep track of which connectors go where don't rush the process when dealing with so many tiny connectors and parts, document the locations and types of screws.
The extra work you do to record each step or layer will pay off with a properly repaired laptop. Trust me. Although you might get a question on the A plus 1001 exam about replacing the video card on a laptop. That's a rare thing to do. Only a handful of models from various manufacturers over the years had a discrete removable slash replaceable video card.
Most commonly, the video processing components are part of the system board. Replacing the video card. In that case means replacing the board, integral parts. Some hardware replacements require you to get serious with the laptop opening it fully to the outside, removing many delicate parts and even stripping it down to the bare chassis.
I leave these repairs to the professional laptop repair folks simply because they have the specific tools and expertise to do the job efficiently. COMPT expects you to understand the process though. So I've outlined it here. This pertains to three components, DC jack, touchpad and system board portables open in two different ways. Depending on the manufacturer, you either peel away layers from the top down through the keyboard or from the bottom up through the base.
Either direction requires careful attention to detail, part connectivity and locations. You will need a system to keep track of the dozens of tiny screws. Every one of the replacements here requires you to detach the screen from the main chassis of the portable. Aside from finding the connection points and removing the proper screws, you need to pay attention to the connection points for the data stream to the monitor and the antenna that's in the frame of the display.
As mentioned earlier. Once you have the portable stripped down, you replace whichever component you are in there to replace and then begin the process of building 894 Mike Myers come Tiaa plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs. Get back up into a coherent unit. Pay incredibly careful attention to getting data cables connected properly as you rebuild.
I can't imagine a worse tech experience than replacing a touch pad and rebuilding a laptop only to have missed a connection and having to do it all over again. Troubleshooting portable computers. Many of the troubleshooting techniques you learned about for desktop sos temps can be applied to laptops, for example, take the proper precautions before and during disassembly use the proper hand tools and document label and organize each plastic part and screw location for
reassembly. Additionally, here are some laptop specific procedures to try power and performance. Some of the most common portable device issues relate to how well they do or don't run. So let's take a look at a few issues related to power performance and heat laptop won't power on if a laptop won't power up a no power scenario. Verify ac power by plugging another electronic device into the wall outlet.
If the other device receives power, the outlet is good. If the outlet is good, connect the laptop to the wall outlet and try to power on. If no LEDs light up, you may have a bad ac adapter swap it out with a known good power adapter. A faulty peripheral device might keep the laptop from powering up, remove any peripherals such as USB firewire or thunderbolt devices, poor performance.
The most common reason for slow performance is that running applications and processes are consuming high resources. All operating systems have a way to check this such as the task manager in windows or activity monitor in macos and look into problems with any. You find they may need to be closed or stopped. You may need to reboot or the application may need an update.
Extreme performance issues may lead to a frozen system if they don't resolve on their own and you can't interact with the device, you may need to perform a hard reboot which may result in the loss of any unsaved work. Usually holding down the power button for 10 seconds is sufficient. Though you may need to check the manufacturer's resources for the proper procedure.
If the battery is removable, you may be able to reboot the device by pulling the battery out and replacing it. Chapter 23 portable computing. The DC jack requires extra special love when you need to replace one, the part is soared to the main board. So replacing it means you will need to not only strip the laptop to the bare metal, but also unsold, the old part and soter the new part, then you will rebuild the laptop and hope you got everything right.
COMPT I cannot expect a COMPT IA a plus technician to know how to do this stuff. Expect a question that explores whether it can be done. Rest assured specialized techs can replace any component on a laptop. Even the DC jack be aware, especially when working with hybrid devices that you might find official or third party resources, discussing hard and soft resets.
These are not the same as hard and soft reboots. So you should pay careful attention to the instructions and make sure you are performing the correct procedure. See Chapter 25 for more on hard and soft resets. 895 battery issues, a swollen battery will probably go unnoticed at first and the symptoms it creates may be hard to identify if you aren't aware it can happen.
The cause is usually overcharging perhaps due to a failure in the circuits that should prevent it. But the early symptoms might be a laptop that doesn't quite sit right on flat surfaces, a screen that doesn't fit flush when closed problems with input devices like the touch pad or keyboard and trouble removing or inserting a removable battery.
Eventually, the device's case may be obviously deformed. While battery packs are designed to handle a little swelling, it increases the risk. They'll puncture in a punctured battery can be dangerous. Don't ignore these symptoms. Open the case carefully to check the battery and very carefully deliver it to an e waste recycling or disposal site.
If you have a laptop with a battery that won't charge up a battery not charging problem, it could be one of two things the battery might be cooked or the AC adapter isn't doing its job to troubleshoot, replace the battery with a known good battery. If the new battery works, you've found the problem, just replace the battery, alternatively remove the battery and run the laptop on AC only if that works.
You know, the AC adapter is good. If it doesn't replace the AC adapter. The reasons for very short battery life in a battery that charges properly are fairly benign. The battery has usually outlived its useful life and needs to be replaced or some programs or hardware are drawing much more power than usual check wireless devices, you usually keep disabled to make sure they aren't done.
Follow recommendations in the preceding poor performance section to address problem programs overheating. Because overheating can be both a symptom and a cause of a variety of issues. You should be alert to any device that is hot to the touch or is running hotter than usual. Note which parts of the device are hot. This can give you important clues if the device feels dangerously hot air on the side of protecting the device from heat damage.
Instead of trying to diagnose the cause, power the device down and remove the battery if possible, set it on a cool hard surface out of direct sunlight with the hottest part of the device exposed to air if possible. Likewise look for possible signs of devices overheating like inconsistent reboots, graphical glitches system, beeps and rule out heat issues.
Listen for our fans while some portables don't have any complete silence may indicate a failed f an unusual noise may signal one on its way out, know when to expect a hot device busy or charging devices create a lot of heat. Follow the steps mentioned in the preceding 896 Mike Myers com tiaa plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs, poor performance and battery issues.
Sections for identifying components that shouldn't be on, especially if they are hot to the touch and finding runaway programs. If the device is charging, unplug it and see if the device cools, if you find nothing unexpected and the device is unusually hot, it may have an airflow problem, check any fan vents for blockages and open the device if necessary to check any fans and heat sinks for issues.
If the entire device is hot, it was most likely left in direct sunlight or a hot environment cool the device down and see if the trouble goes away. Components, various hardware components can use help too. Such devices include the display, wireless networking, audio and input devices, display problems. If the laptop is booting, you hear the beeps and the drives, but the screen doesn't come on properly and no display problem first, make sure the display is turned on, press the
FN key and the key to activate the screen a number of times until the laptop display comes on. If that doesn't work, check the LCD cut off switch on many laptops. This is the small knob somewhere near the screen hinge that shuts the monitor off when you close the laptop and make sure it isn't stuck in the down position. If the device is a convertible with a removable screen, make sure it is properly attached and that it is receiving power.
If the laptop display is very dim, a dim display problem, you may have lost an inverter note that this is only an issue with the older CC technology. The clue here is that inverters never go quietly, they can make a nasty hum as they are about to die in an equally nasty popping noise. When they actually fail, failure often occurs when you plug in the laptop's AC adapter.
As the inverters take power directly from the AC adapter. It's also possible that the back lights in the LCD panel have died though this is much less common than a bat inverter. If the screen won't come on or is cracked. Most laptops have a port for plugging in an external monitor which you can use to log into your laptop if you plug a laptop into an external monitor and that monitor does not display.
Remember that you have both a hardware and an OS component to making dual displays successful. There's usually a combination of FN and another key to toggle among only portable, only external and both displays. Plus you have the display settings or display applet in the control panel to mirror or extend the desktop to a second monitor. Many manufacturers have switched to led displays on laptops which has led to a phenomenon.
Many techs thought long behind chapter 23 portable computing 897. Thus, flickering displays, the led back lights don't work quite the same as C CFL back lights, especially when you lower the brightness. This doesn't affect desktop led displays because they're usually so bright, it doesn't matter, but portables need to be able to dim to save battery life.
One technique for dimming LEDs is to have them turn on and off rapidly enough to keep the pixels lit. But slowly enough that there's a reduction in visible light and electricity use with some of these panels that flickering is not only noticeable but headache and eye strain inducing. There are two ways to fix a flickering led display crank up the brightness so that it goes away and thus live with reduced battery life or replace the laptop.
If the screen orientation on a windows portable doesn't change when the device is rotated, autorotation may be disabled. Likewise, if the orientation changes at the wrong time, you can lock rotation in settings or via the display applet in the control panel. If the rotation needs to remain locked, the orientation can still be changed via settings slash display or possibly with FN key combinations.
Expect a couple of questions on the A plus 1001 exam that explore scenarios where a client experiences no wireless connectivity or no Bluetooth connectivity, wireless devices, Bluetooth, wifi, mobile broadband NFC or GPS don't work or work intermittently. If the wireless doesn't work at all, check along the front, rear or side edges of the laptop for a physical switch that toggles the internal wireless adapter, Bluetooth adapter or airplane mode on and off.
Also check your notification area for an airplane icon. If a tech has recently replaced a component that required removal of the laptop display, dead wireless could mean simply a disconnected antenna most portables have the antenna built into the display panel. So check that connection, try the special key combination for your laptop to toggle the wireless or Bluetooth adapter or one for toggling airplane mode.
You usually press the FN key in combination with another key. You might simply be out of range or if the wireless works intermittently, right at the edge of the range physically walk the laptop over to the wireless router or access point to ensure there are no out of range issues. You might also be experiencing congestion. Too many wireless devices operating in the same frequency range with Bluetooth specifically remember that the pairing process takes action or
configuration on both devices to succeed. Turn on the Bluetooth device actively seek it and try again if only the GPS is not functioning, privacy options may be preventing applications from accessing your GPS location information, check the location settings, applet in the control panel or the privacy section of the settings app to see whether the GPS device is enabled.
And if location services are enabled both system wide and for the appropriate applications, check system preferences in Macos or a similar location in Linux for the same options. While we won't discuss near field communication NFC in depth until chapter 24 some portable computers may have NFC support to expand portable computer. 98 Mike Myers can manage and maintain, guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs and portable FC isn't functioning upgrade.
Meaning to a setting to enable communication with by portable computers and windows open the proximity times when the control of when you try to change, you have hardware, make sure priority support or sometimes you just audio problems need to get away from yours for a few hours because they're driving you the hardware mute or occupations and verify through the notification area, volume access to your audio and spreadsheets.
You can through your email or device infi through the system to the education is using the right devices combined mobile device accessibility upgrades lately, make sure the speakers or properly connected portables enable you to take some sound coming from the device capabilities with when you in a pair of heads speaker desktop system.
These were many portables. There's a seamless trans speaker table depending on your location that the class would be easy to compute with essentially a desktop headphones work fine with the device. The speakers may need replacing first, make sure the device has been rebooted. Double check the audio output device settings, try changing and resetting the default output device and try saving about enabling the appropriate device notebook.
Is that no matter how much you stuff into it, it doesn't have the input problem. It's hardware related and the speed the system is otherwise running in this chapter, you will learn devices may appear not to work to describe or any types of system free shooting devices available referred to the earlier power and performance to exception for troubleshooting a frozen system, manage and maintain a affordable work on your laptop.
There's a good chance you have portable computer connector. Troubleshooters are prone to unseating from any physical stress on the laptop. When you need such a manufacturer to give assembly procedures to lawyers and races, or sometimes you just, if you are getting numbers to get away, expecting to get letters for a few hours because they're driving you nuts.
Function key is too many occupations that's difficult to do. Pay attention to the nuts locked in their documents and spreadsheets on a fun. You experience problems in short, you need a computer to get your job to use than the typical desk computing devices could cause a mobility lunch, accessibility to brainstorm sessions. You the best drink while overboard round enable you to take some for all of your computing capabilities with you sticking keys featuring all the debris
and the desktop system use compressed portables offer a seamless if you have serious cafe tape to use a cleaning. So chapter look classic port from first, essentially a desk, makes sure it's fully dried out. Transformed into a mobile. You sorted out classic portable is usually run the same that impress their desktops. Counter may have had it out for Linux, especially some operating systems like pro 23 based on Linux.
He 800 or 19 years key appears slightly raised or T H A T switches can be delicate. So be careful as you want to avoid ordering computer devices. Research what kind of switch your devices, share certain features and be aware that a single keyboard may use LPD screens. Although these vary from to detach and on that device, if possible can otherwise find a gene varying for the quality type before no playback to fairly nice around having problems.
A shot of compressed one cleaning and battery as a touch pad sensor. An A you might get a cleaner shot about keyboarding device using the compressed folks describe the remember to be gentle and lifting computer keyboards such as the one in the manufacturer's instructions with built in LCD. The touch pad driver might need to be recond. A touch pad of various spaces in the control panel mouse is also called or the equivalent location in the terms are synonymous the trouble
shooting or shoot down as a ghost cursor. We stand alone of two things, but there are always trade off display shows trail ghost cursors, your real curses as you move it to my aging display properly by fresh rays, the cursor for drift in a steady direction. You're also known as if any you are touching the touch program or not portable. It's easier to drink and figure out what that has properly been damaged in certain way the devices features and exclude those touchscreen that's
untra or erratic. A good tax is checking the screen for dirt. The company's and portable devices go haywire so that we can dry micro five devices are always in flux. Some touch screen device cat and they relate if they are registering an un in touch and blur the line depending on the design, a device. One year, it may be tempting to fall out in a way with a few year.
Part of your hand the car to the edge of the screen, focus on devices as a touch, but it's still a good idea. Your device may have touch screen, diagnostic, categorized hardware devising makes it easier to identify devices that are good to the manufacturer's resources for how to help these trouble shooting for a way to identify whether you're looking at hardware or software configuration in the mouse.
Sometimes in more than one term settings, you TOB or your touch to address the size has a trash had laptop notebooks attempted to reset and recalibrate today's laptops driven by a success by the Myers lost guide to manager and troubleshoot how they were when many of these terms were 23 23.2 summer chatman traditionally exercise massive screen should understand the following of our dedicated graphics card.
The latest describe the many types of portable computing devices, drive space tons of portable devices, see video on the left and screen three point some kind of audio output power and DC battery Chapter 20. There's no industry standard for naming the vast majority of styles of portable computing devices. The traditional portable computer form factor is the clamshell keyboard on the bottom and LCD screen at the top design.
The terms laptop and notebook both refer to this form factor desktop replacements are hefty laptops packed with power and features, gaming laptops are similarly loaded with high performance components and flashy designs. A chromebook is a portable computer running Google's Linux based Chrome OS chromebooks focus on web applications by making use of virtually unlimited data storage in the cloud and sauce applications because they offload so much work.
Chromebooks have a reputation for being cheap and light but premium chromebooks are increasingly common. Newer two in one form factors inspired by mobile devices, merge the laptop and tablet experience. Two in one are touchscreen computers. Somewhere along the spectrum from laptop and tablet to tablet and laptop. Convertibles offer a rotating or removable screen enabling you to turn the device into a tablet computer.
Portable computers come with a variety of input devices. Most have a fully functional keyboard in a device to control the mouse pointer. The basic quy format is used but manufacturers differ on key size and placement of the non alphabet characters. Almost every portable keyboard uses a function FN key to enable some keys to perform an extra duty.
By far, the most common laptop pointing device found today is the touchpad, a flat touch sensitive pad just in front of the keyboard. Two chapter 23 portable computing, operate a touch pad. You simply glide your finger across its surface to move the pointer and tap the surface once or twice to single or double click. You can perform additional functions with gestures.
If the touch pad has multi touch support portable computers, especially the hybrid form factors commonly include a webcam and microphone. The primary purpose is video chat. But microphones also enable the use of voice commands, portables with the ability to see and hear what goes on around them present additional privacy and security risks explain ways to expand portable computers.
Every portable device comes with one or more single function ports. The most common of all is the ubiquitous audio port and some have a microphone in port. Though built in microphones are increasingly common. Laptops invariably provide a video port such as HDMI, including mini HDMI and micro HDMI display port including USB type C and Thunderbolt and DVI for hooking up an external monitor.
Though rare, you may still find older or special purpose portables with a VGA port. Most laptops support a second monitor giving you the option to duplicate your screen to the new monitor or extend your desktop across both displays letting you move windows between them. Usually a special function FN key on the keyboard will cycle through the monitor configurations.
All portables offer some kind of network connectivity such as 802.11 Wi Fi to connect to the internet, wired Ethernet ports are common on full sized laptops but are rare in smaller contemporary laptops and hybrids. Bluetooth is common for connecting peripherals, portables have some way to toggle Wi Fi and Bluetooth off and on to conserve battery life.
The Serial Express card comes in two widths 54 millimeters Express card slash 54 34 millimeters Express card slash 34. Both carts are 75 millimeters long and five millimeters thick express cards connect to either the high speed USB 2.0 bus 480 mvps or the PCI Express bus 2.5 GBPS 901. Many portable devices also come equipped with a slot for a flash memory card most commonly SD or MICROSD.
Though you may encounter other types on older devices, these enable fast file transfers end on devices with limited internal storage, an essential boost to storage capacity. Most portable devices have one or more general purpose expansion ports that enable you to connect many devices such as mice, modems, printers, scanners, external optical drives and more USB thunderbolt and firewire to a lesser extent are popular.
Widespread methods for attaching peripherals. Though you may find older ports on ancient or specialized devices, all have easy to use connectors and can be hot swapped. Docking stations offer legacy in modern single and multi function ports. Though the high speeds of USB three dot X and Thunderbolt two and three have made universal docks more common a port replicator plugs into a USB or thunderbolt port and offers a lot of other types of connectors such as video and
networking. You can also use a USB adapter to interface with whatever technology you need. These can enable you to add an RJ 45 connection Wi Fi and Bluetooth radios, optical drives and more manage and maintain portable computers. Keep in mind that very compact or hybrid portables take design cues from mobile devices. You may need to mix practices for these less traditional portables with the practices for managing and maintaining mobile devices discussed in chapter 25
today, portable computers use lithium ion li ion batteries because that battery chemistry provides the highest energy density for the weight and has few problems with external factors. A le ion variant lithium polymer lipo enables the battery to take a solid form which can be shaped to free space within a device rather than being restricted to a rectangular shape.
Batteries should be stored in a cool place and kept charged at least to 70 to 80%. Never drain a battery all the way down unless required to do so. As part of a battery calibration, rechargeable batteries have only a limited number of charge discharge cycles before overall battery performance is reduced because batteries contain dangerous chemicals never handle one that has ruptured 902 always recycle old batteries rather than disposing of them in the trash.
The process of cooperation among the hardware, the bios and the Os to reduce power use is known generically as power management. Early laptops used power continuously regardless of whether the system was using the device at the time. With power management features. Today's laptops can automatically throttle CP speed, turn off unused devices or put the system into low power sleep slash standby slash suspense or hibernate modes, keeping application state ready to resume
from ram or a storage device, configure power options via the system setup, utility or through the operating system. OS settings, override CMO settings, laptops with backlit keyboards will have some way you can disable this feature when it's not needed. Usually with a keyboard combination, you can also reduce the output of the LCD back light using a combination of FN and another key to get a few more minutes of computing time before you have to shut down.
Use an appropriate screen cleaner, not glass cleaner to clean the LCD screen, use compressed air around the keyboard and touchpad. Never use water around the keyboard to combat the inevitable heat produced by a portable computer. Always use power management. Keep an air space between the bottom of the laptop and the surface on which it rests.
Don't use a keyboard protector for an extended period of time and be aware of your fan store portable computers in quality cases when traveling well padded backpacks, not only keep a laptop protected, but also make a system less appealing to would-be thieves when traveling. Don't forget accessories such as ac power cords, additional batteries or modular devices, remove all disks from drives and make sure you have enough battery power to boot up for security personnel.
If shipping your computer go with a reputable carrier, keep your tracking number and request a delivery signature. Use a laptop lock or a software tracking system to protect your laptop when traveling, upgrade and repair portable computers because very compact or hybrid portables take design cues from mobile devices. The device may Mike Myers com, Tiaa plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs be hard or impossible to disassemble without specialized tools and
hardware that is standard and easily replaced or upgraded on a larger laptop may be soldered on be prepared to integrate these steps with mobile device recommendations. In chapter 25 you need to follow a four step process to succeed in disassembly slash reassembly, first, document and label every cable and screw location. Second, organize any parts you extract from the device.
Third, refer to the manufacturer's resources. Finally use the appropriate hand tools. If you can't get information directly from the manufacturer, try various online sites such as youtube or Ifixit for walkthrough on fixing problems. Every Tiaa Plus tech should know how to perform the two standard upgrades to portable computers, adding ram and replacing a hard drive.
Most portables with upgradable or replaceable ram. Use one of three types of ram. Older systems, use 200 pin DDR and DDR two Sodi Ims current systems primarily use 204 pin DDR three Sodi Ims or newer 260 pin DDR four Sodi Ims, no standard exists for ram placement in portables and the slots may not even be in the same place more often than not. You need to unscrew or pop open a panel on the underside of the portable and press out on the restraining clips to make the ram stick pop up so you
can remove and replace it. Always disconnect from all electrical sources including batteries before removing or inserting ram portables that support shared memory benefit from more affordable video cards. The video card has less built in Ram and uses a portion of the computer's system ram to make up the difference. Although this results in a lower cost system performance suffers because ram that is shared with the video card is not available to programs sata drives in the
2.5 inch drive format. Now rule in all laptops, currently the largest 2.5 inch hard drives hold up to five TB of data though drives that will fit in a laptop top out at two TB, while 3.5 inch hard drives hold more than eight TB upgrading from an HDD to an SSD can bring remarkable gains in battery life and performance solid state hybrid drives. Once an attractive compromise between speed and capacity have become a lukewarm choice as SSD prices fall and capacities rise once you get
beyond upgrading ram and replacing a hard drive on a portable. You take the plunge into the device repair specialty. You can replace some components by lifting them out, detaching a ribbon cable and then reversing the steps with the replacement part. Other parts require a full tear down of the laptop to the bare bones which presents a much greater level of difficulty.
Standard tech level repairs you should be able to do are replacing the battery keyboard and optical drive. Usually some are tough to get out. Others are replacing the small speakers and missing frame parts. You can also open the hatch on the bottom of the case that opens like the ram hatch to expose other parts for replacement. The same hatch might hold one or two mini C or M 20.2 slots for example and give you access to the CP.
Some hardware replacements require you to open a portable, remove many delicate parts and strip it down to the bare chassis, dedicated laptop techs do these jobs. But you should know the process portables open in two different ways. Depending on the manufacturer, you either peel away layers from the top down through the keyboard or from the bottom up through the base.
Either direction requires careful attention to detail part connectivity and locations. You will need a system to keep track of the dozens of tiny screws troubleshoot portable computers. If your portable won't power on try a different wall. Outlet if it still fails to power up, remove all peripheral devices and try again if it still won't power on the AC adapter may be bad.
Performance may suffer if a program is frozen or too many programs are open, you can typically troubleshoot this with tools for analyzing system performance such as task manager in windows or activity monitor in macos, use them to identify and kill frozen unnecessary or resource heavy programs and see if performance improves extreme or stubborn performance issues may require a hard reboot.
The most common battery issues are swelling short life or charging problems. Parts that don't sit. Chapter 23 portable computing 903 close open or function like normal could be early symptoms of a swollen battery, swollen batteries are dangerous and should be promptly taken to an E waste disposal site. A battery with short life is usually just old and in need of replacing but check to make sure there aren't performance issues causing increased power use if the battery won't
charge the AC adapter or battery needs replacing. If the battery is removable, you can identify a bat ac adapter by pulling the battery and trying to run the device with only the ac adapter. Overheating can be a sign of poor airflow, high resource use battery problems or exposure to a hot environment, but it can also cause problems like damage to components or the battery.
If the device feels dangerously hot, act fast to avoid damage power down the device and move it to a cool environment if there's no obvious cause such as the portable charging or doing heavy work. Listen for fans if the device has any and check vents for blockages. If the device is charging, see if it cools when unplugged. If the screen doesn't come on properly, verify that the laptop is configured to use the built-in LCD screen by pressing the appropriate key to cycle through the
internal and external monitors. If you hear a popping sound, you may have lost an inverter with older CC technology. If the screen is definitely broken, you may use an external monitor to access the laptop. One technique for dimming LEDs is to have them turn on and off rapidly enough to keep the pixels lit but slowly enough that there's a reduction in visible light and electricity use with some of these panels that flickering is not only noticeable but headache and eye strain
inducing key terms, advanced configuration and power interface. A CPI 878 advanced power management APM, 878 aspect ratio, 869 docking station, 875 express card, 874 function FN key, 867 gesture 868 hibernate, 878 high gloss, 869 904. If wireless is not working check for the physical switch on the site of the laptop that toggles power to the internal network card, Bluetooth adapter, GPS or NFC.
If your laptop doesn't have a switch check for a key combination or function key that toggles power check. If the device is in airplane mode, you also may be out of range physically walk the laptop closer to the wireless router or access point. If the only problem is GPS or NFC check settings for location, privacy and communication with nearby devices.
When audio isn't working, check for any hardware audio controls and verify that audio isn't muted in the notification area. If the device has recently been serviced, make sure the speakers are still connected, try plugging in headphones or speakers to identify a problem with the device's internal speaker before replacing speakers.
Try a reboot and double check audio output device settings. Try changing and resetting the default output device and disabling and re enabling the output device itself. When input devices aren't responding, confirm the device isn't frozen or having other performance problems reboot the device if necessary. If the keypad or touchpad doesn't work, try a shot of compressed air rece the physical internal connection or reconfigure the driver's settings through the control
panel or system preferences. An unresponsive or erratic touchscreen may be dirty wet or registering, unintentional touches, wipe it down with a dry microfiber cloth and make sure you are holding it properly. If it is still erratic or unresponsive check the manufacturer's resources to see if there's a hardware troubleshooting mode with a touchscreen diagnostic laptop.
865 lithium ion li ion 876 lithium polymer lipo 876 M 8760.2 893 matte 800 69 mnisi 893 multi touch 868 notebook 865 offline files. 881 power management. 877 Mike Myers Coma plus guide to managing and troubleshooting pcs power plan 879 shared memory. 890 sleep 878 stand by 878 swollen battery. 896 suspend 878 touchpad, 868 track 8680.868 key term quiz, use the key terms list to complete the sentences that follow.
Not all terms will be used. Want a typical clamshell style portable computer with built in LCD monitor, keyboard, an input device is most commonly called a laptop or underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore.


